---
title: 2014 anime, the less-bulleted edition, part 1
created_at: 2015-01-14 23:31:50.000000000 +00:00
tags:
- anime
- review
- yearinreview
---

Here are some more words on things I liked from the year just gone by.
[Last time](http://blog.room208.org/post/70728179447), I remarked that
nobody reads long posts. I’m getting around that this go-round by
splitting this one up into two parts. Ha-*ha!*

## *Golden Time*

![](/blog/media/tumblr_inline_nhw07avNkD1qhcb4p.jpg)

I won’t deny that *Golden Time* doesn’t make that great of a first
impression. The premise of the romance drama reads like a gimmick, what
with the main character having amnesia, and the first few episodes stick
more or less to the fish-out-of-water formula. If I’d seen *Toradora!*
earlier, too, hearing that both series shared an original author, Yuyuko
Takemiya, would have set off more alarm bells in my head. It’s a good
thing that didn’t happen, though, because *Golden Time* is one of the
better entries in the genre to come around in a while, taking full
advantage of its emotionally fraught setting to draw out memorable
performances from Yui Horie and Ai Kayano. And hey, it’s good to have a
show in this genre where the cast are all more or less adults for a
change. Well, college students. Close enough.

## *Madoka: Rebellion*

![](/blog/media/tumblr_inline_nhvz8pU6sA1qhcb4p.jpg)

I already wrote quite a bit about the theatrical sequel to the original
*Madoka* TV series in [a spoiler-filled
review](http://blog.room208.org/post/84717187433) back in May. For those
of you who don’t want to have the movie ruined, though, or just don’t
like reading too much, here’s a summary: stunning animation, a
spellbinding score by Yuki Kajiura, and tremendous writing out of Gen
Urobuchi – the last of which is all the more impressive given that the
ending of the original series didn’t leave much apparent room for a
sequel. (If only [*Psycho-Pass
2*](http://blog.room208.org/post/105557009418) had been in similarly
good hands.)

## Yasuhiro Yoshiura’s new films

![](/blog/media/tumblr_inline_nhw1uugqhR1qhcb4p.jpg)

The inimitable filmmaker behind *Time of Eve* struck again twice last
year, and lo, it was good. *Patema Inverted* was easily the bigger of
the two efforts, and it shows in the scale of the world that Yoshiura
builds in the film, a (kinda) half-underground half-dystopia that is
wholly impressive. The extroverted nature of action adventure isn’t
quite to the usually more introspective Yoshiura’s talents – the lead
antagonist is nothing if not cartoonish in his villainy – but what
separates *Patema* from, say, Makoto Shinkai’s venture into similar
territory with his *Children Who Chase Lost Voices from Deep Below* is
that *Patema* holds on to a genuine sense of awe and wonder. It’s a
great all-ages film, on top of all that.

Flying further under the radar was *Harmonie*, a thirty-minute short
produced for 2014’s Anime Mirai. A concise love story, *Harmonie* plays
more to Yoshiura’s traditional strengths while displaying an atypical,
but well-executed, sentimentality. If nothing else, it has one of the
more ingenious twists I’ve seen on the old trope of fated encounters.

Stay tuned for part two. Or don’t. Your loss.
