---
title: 2014 anime, the less-bulleted edition, part 2
created_at: 2015-02-01 02:35:24.000000000 +00:00
tags:
- anime
- review
- yearinreview
---

[Part one](http://blog.room208.org/post/108115059123)’s not too far
away.

## *Ping Pong*

![](/blog/media/tumblr_inline_nj2jv6IPPm1qhcb4p.jpg)

It’s obvious that noitaminA has been getting more hit or miss lately –
outside of *Silver Spoon*’s second season, *Ping Pong* is probably the
only show that aired in the block’s 2014 schedule that’s really worth a
watch. If you need a forceful case that the glory days aren’t totally
over yet, though, this is it. The most obvious highlight is Masaaki
Yuasa’s stylized visual treatment, which bursts with an unrestrained
energy that [*The Flowers of
Evil*](http://blog.room208.org/post/54305409058)’s quivering linework
only wishes it had. Like the best of sports shows before it, *Ping Pong*
spends as much time getting us inside the characters’ heads as it does
showing actual play, especially in the case of the show’s dual
protagonists. And its Chinese cast members are actually portrayed by
Chinese voice actors, one of whom is also fluent in Japanese! Seal of
approval right there.

## *Tonari no Seki-kun*

![](/blog/media/tumblr_inline_nj2kyuoA3w1qhcb4p.jpg)

You might think that getting heavy hitters like Kana Hanazawa and Hiro
Shimono to do a seven-minute comedy series whose premise can be summed
up as “high school kid builds crazy things at his desk” is excessive,
especially given that one of them never actually speaks at all. *Tonari
no Seki-kun*, however, is one of those shows that lives or dies on its
execution, and the investment demonstrably pays off. Maybe it’s because
Hanazawa has been in every show from here to nigh eternity, but her
exaggerated reactions to the title character’s antics make a terrific
stand-in for our own bewildered amusement as the viewers. As for
Shimono, meanwhile, you’d be surprised how expressive a few well-placed
grunts and sighs can be. (He was [apparently really pumped up during the
dubbing sessions](http://i.imgur.com/aeUk8ej.jpg).)

## *Monthly Girls’ Nozaki*

![](/blog/media/tumblr_inline_nj2kz3hD9g1qhcb4p.jpg)

Yes, I’ve saved the best for last. It’s hard to describe what makes a
funny thing funny without destroying the experience altogether, of
course, but if I had to boil down the essence of *Nozaki*’s success, it
would be its refreshing confidence in its own humor. There are no sly
winks and nods attempting to make up for lackluster jokes, no lazy
archetypal gags, and no phoned-in characterizations. It’s just a show
that clearly enjoys itself, and earnestly wants you to join in on the
fun. The gentle shots at shoujo clichés are icing on the cake.

Ari Ozawa’s performance as our main heroine Chiyo (that’s her in the
orange there) deserves special mention. Ozawa put in a lot of voice
acting legwork to keep the fast-paced bits hanging together, often
moving from starry-eyed fascination to illusion-free sarcasm in the span
of a line or two, and the results speak for themselves. It’s these
unpredictable turns from her and the other cast members that keep the
show so consistently fresh.

## Postscript

*Monogatari Series* turned in another pair of solid entries last year.
I’ve long given up on being able to judge the franchise on objective
merits alone, but if you’re anything like me, *Hanamonogatari* and
*Tsukimonogatari* are still the old friends you’ve come to cherish.

*Shirobako* and *April Is Your Lie*, two shows that started in 2014, but
won’t end until this spring, are sitting pretty on my current list for
2015. Watch this space.
