---
created_at: 2015-05-29 05:48:09.000000000 +00:00
tags:
- tumblr
- webdev
- followeroutreach
---

@[sunbinamra](http://sunbinamra.tumblr.com/) writes:

> Hi! First off, thank you so much for the post about changing type of
> Tumblr post - I've managed to turn a couple of posts from text to
> photo. However, I'm a complete novice when it comes to codes, hacks,
> etc. and in both cases I end up with a blank ghost image at the
> beginning that I can't seem to get rid of. Do you have any idea what
> might be causing this? Thanks again!

I suspect that since the post type conversion doesn’t have a value for
the image field, Tumblr inserts a reference to a nonexistent image
instead. (This isn’t your fault; it’s just a quirk of how the data is
stored on the server.) Ordinarily, you’d be able to delete it using the
dashboard, but the button to do so only appears when you hover over the
image. Since the image doesn’t actually exist, it’s displayed with a
height of zero pixels. Can’t really hover over that.

What you can do, though, is simulate a click on the delete button. To do
this, open up the broken post’s edit page, and paste the following in
the developer console:

    $('.remove-button').first().click();

If you haven’t added any other images yet, the standard *Upload photos*
and *Add photo from web* options should appear inside the edit form,
indicating that Tumblr thinks there are no longer any images attached to
the post. In either case, save once you’ve changed the images to your
liking, and you should be on your merry way.
