---
created_at: 2015-09-15 01:31:08.000000000 +00:00
tags:
- tumblr
- webdev
- whinybugzilla
---

Tumblr has started making link posts point to an interstitial redirect
on `t.umblr.com`, instead of directly to the actual page. In the spirit
of [Google’s incredibly annoying
redirector](http://webapps.stackexchange.com/questions/25175/why-does-google-search-use-redirects-instead-of-direct-links),
the URLs are hideous:

    http://t.umblr.com/redirect?t=ZDEwZGUwNGIxMmVlNTAxMTNiOTAzYWQ
    yYjY1ZTdmMjM2MzAwN2NmYSxFSnRleTUxQw%3D%3D&u=aHR0cDovL3d3dy5mL
    W5vaXRhbWluYS5jb20%3D

`t` appears to be a Base64-encoded token specific to the post, while `u`
is just the Base64-encoded URL. The redirector at least checks that the
token matches the URL so that it can’t be used for phishing by setting
an arbitrary target, which raises the question of why the URL is there
in the first place, in a format that’s opaque to human readers.

Not following Google’s example, the redirect is performed as an HTML
`<meta>` refresh. This is stupid for a multitude of reasons, not the
least of which is that it [confuses clients that aren’t Web
browsers](https://www.google.com/search?q=site%3At.umblr.com). Moreover,
while Google waits until the link is clicked on to replace the URL, so
the status bar remains useful, Tumblr doesn’t. This means that there’s
no visible indication of where a link really points if you’re not on the
dashboard.

What is the point of all this? Analytics, most likely, though of course
given Tumblr’s remarkable lack of communication about its platform the
real reason is anyone’s guess. What I do know is that it’s dumb.
