---
title: Whoever wins, we lose
created_at: 2015-10-24 05:37:56.000000000 +00:00
tags:
- ranpokitan
- anime
- review
---

![](/blog/media/tumblr_inline_nwphokOZkl1qhcb4p_500.jpg)

Good mystery is all about the why. Through the eyes of our detective, we
probe the culprit’s motivations and the environment that shaped them. As
the audience, we’re made to understand the compelling logic of the
crime, even though we find it reprehensible. It may be a distorted
reflection, but we recognize what we see in the mirror the story holds
up to our faces.

*Ranpo Kitan* is all about the why, too, but in a different way, namely,
“Why didn’t anyone realize this show was a bad idea?”

The show purports to be a loose adaptation of several works of Edogawa
Ranpo, an early twentieth-century Japanese mystery novelist, in a more
contemporary setting. This is already treading on thin ice, but it’s not
a guaranteed recipe for failure. *UN-GO*, after all, threw an author
from the same time period into an unrecognizable world, but its mildly
dystopic war-torn future was constructed well enough to stand up on its
own next to Ango Sakaguchi’s inspiration. Unfortunately, *Ranpo Kitan*
brings no such thoughtfulness to the table, electing to instead pile on
layer after layer of cartoonish caricature.

Let’s start with the ostensible protagonist, Kobayashi. Now, the first
character we meet doesn’t always have to be likable, but they should at
least be someone whose perspective we can assume to ease ourselves into
the proceedings. *Ranpo Kitan*, on the other hand, strains to make its
version of Kobayashi as obviously unhinged as possible. His enthusiasm
for the morbid murder cases he’s presented with ends up being less
disturbing than pathetic, as if being deliberately contrary to
expectations is the only interesting thing about him. On top of this,
the adaptation exaggerates the feminine features of Edogawa’s original
character, which mostly came in useful for disguises, into, well, a
stereotypical trap that has all the clichéd characteristics you’d expect
to appeal to people who use words like “trap.” Kobayashi’s girlish looks
serve no narrative purpose in *Ranpo Kitan*; they’re just there for
occasional awkward moments between him and his male best friend Hashiba,
which we’re presumably supposed to find funny.

Akechi, Kobayashi’s reluctant mentor and boy-genius investigator, is a
more promising candidate for an audience proxy, and the show does start
to make overtures in that direction about halfway through. His
introversion is more suited to the pace of a script heavy on interior
thoughts, and his weary cynicism is at least more believable than
Kobayashi’s irrational exuberance. *Ranpo Kitan* manages to sink his
chances at relatability too, though, first by giving him virtually no
development throughout most of the series, and then saddling him with a
ridiculous heroic backstory in the closing episodes.

All of this is dropped into a stew of metaphysical mish-mash that counts
for the show’s philosophical underpinnings. *Ranpo Kitan* starts out by
thinking up the most generic of justifications for its criminals’
actions, and then gives up on even that in its latter half by focusing
on a series of copycat crimes. The dramatic presentation seems to
suggest that we’re exploring the depths of human depravity, but the
villains offer nothing to shake us to the bone. Most of it is just a
rehash of the old refrain on the place of vigilantism in the face of
injustice. What’s left are tedious attempts to shock us with
out-of-place bit characters like one imprisoned acquaintance of
Akechi’s, a literal masochist who contributes very little to the story
except for gratuitous bondage imagery.

In spite of how self-evidently crazy this all is, *Ranpo Kitan* spends a
lot of time trying to take itself very seriously indeed. Director Seiji
Kishi’s flair for the absurd and darkly comic, put to such good use in
*Humanity Has Declined*, only compounds the problem here. Each murder
victim’s autopsy, for instance, is presented by a gag character who
looks like she’s taken a wrong turn on the way to her audition for a
Japanese variety show and otherwise plays no role in the story – until,
of course, in a “shocking” twist, she does. Was anyone asking for this?

The show’s sole saving grace is its fantastic opening and ending themes,
which thankfully have little to do with the rest of this mess.

Don’t watch *Ranpo Kitan*. Seriously. Life is too short.
