---
created_at: 2015-11-03 04:46:15.000000000 +00:00
tags:
- miyumatsuki
- anime
---

We learned yesterday that voice actress Miyu Matsuki passed away from
pneumonia last week at the age of 38. It’s a bit irresponsible to reduce
someone with a résumé like hers down to a single role, but for me she
left her greatest mark as the youthful, often-indiscreet homeroom
teacher Yoshinoya in *Hidamari Sketch*. I can’t imagine anyone else
bringing the character to life with quite the same irrepressible energy
that made such an impression over four seasons and a handful of OVAs.

There’s this weird, conflicted feeling I get whenever I hear that a
performer whose work I enjoy has suddenly died. Along with the wish that
they hadn’t gone so soon is a little voice in the back of my head that
tells me how callous it is to want someone to stay alive solely so they
can continue to toil for my entertainment. It goes without saying, but
that’s the only way I really knew Matsuki, as a disembodied voice on the
other side of a television or computer screen. There’s a world of
difference between that and [the shock and grief of the people who have
actually worked with
her](http://www.animenewsnetwork.com/news/2015-11-01/voice-actress-miyu-matsuki-passes-away/.94904).

At the same time, I think Matsuki’s work was, like any other form of
artistic performance, in part an expression of who she herself was, and
it seems fair to wish that she had more time to do that through her
voice acting. One should always be wary of reading too far into any
similarities between actors and their characters, but I will note that,
like Yoshinoya, Matsuki never wed and had more than enough vitality for
someone half her age.

Matsuki’s [final post to her
blog](http://blog.excite.co.jp/matsukimiyu/22169446/) reads, in part,
“When I get over this illness, I’ll get married this time for real!” One
of the last roles I heard Matsuki in before she died was Chimo, the
cheerful proprietor of a local favorite *okonomiyaki* restaurant in
*Tamayura*. In the most recent of the current ongoing series of OVAs,
Chimo announces that she’s getting engaged. Matsuki is no longer with us
to see her wedding.

Rest in peace, Ms. Matsuki. You will be missed.
