---
title: One long post about one not-so-long visual novel
created_at: 2012-01-30 02:40:00.000000000 +00:00
tags:
- katawashoujo
- visualnovel
- review
---

Thinking back on it, the fact that [<cite>Katawa
Shoujo</cite>](http://katawa-shoujo.com/) even exists almost seems like
a miracle in itself. With [a team of twenty or so
volunteers](http://katawa-shoujo.com/staff.php) working for half a
decade to make it a reality, I can only imagine the number of places
where the entire project could have fallen apart. That the game even
made it to final release is a testament to the team’s dedication. That
it’s actually pretty good – well, that’s something more than just
persistence.

A rough, spoilertastic rundown of my thoughts after the break.

<% render '/blog/_more.haml' do %>

I’ll start with the bad, which in this case was Shizune’s route. I will
admit that I didn’t get the best impression of her character from the
Act 1 preview, but my problems with her arc have less to do with her
personality than the overall plotting. In short, her story suffered from
a lack of focus; while there were a lot of great ideas sprinkled
throughout her path, none of them really resolved to my satisfaction.
Take Hisao’s learning to sign, for example. Overcoming the barrier of
Shizune’s deafness could have made for an entire story on its own.
Instead, Hisao seems to pick up the ins and outs of an entirely new
language within months, if not weeks, and the problem gets shoved aside
almost as soon as it’s brought up. After all, the story needs to move on
to Shizune’s tensions with her family, her history with Lilly, her
friendship-that-might-have-been-more with Misha, her stress from doing
literally half of the work of the Student Council, blah blah blah… you
get the idea. At times, I got the sense that Shizune was being pushed
out of the spotlight in her own route, especially when it came to the
ridiculous, and largely pointless, interactions with her family. (I will
grudgingly give a tip of my hat, though, to whoever came up with the
reference to [Kanou
Jigorou](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kan%C5%8D_Jigor%C5%8D), even if
his given name does sound a lot like “gigolo.”) Needless to say, in the
midst of all of this, her relationship with Hisao doesn’t get much of a
chance to develop into something meaningful. Funnily enough, if there
was a bright spot in the whole mess, it was the route’s heartbreaking
bad end, which seemed to have more emotional content than the entire
rest of the path combined.

The clearest contrast I can draw here is to Emi’s storyline. Now, I’ll
be frank – her route’s not going to win any points for originality, but
it was simple, to the point, and smoothly executed. Much like its
heroine, Emi’s arc has a sense of playful self-awareness to it, which
shows in the dialogue and some of the subversions of expectation
throughout her story. I particularly liked how Emi’s character turned
into something more than the one-dimensional exercise-obsessed
caricature that Act 1 seems to give off. While some of the twists on her
character type, like her age and sexual experience, are again obvious,
at least in hindsight, they fit smoothly into the rest of her portrayal.
My primary quibble with the story lies with Hisao’s occasional
denseness, especially when Emi manages to get away with avoiding the
subject of her dad with exactly the same words she used earlier to shrug
off Hisao’s concern about her limp – the one that later turned into an
infection and forced her into a wheelchair. Then again, to be fair, it’s
hardly as egregious as some of Hisao’s behavior in <cite>Katawa
Shoujo</cite>’s other arcs, let alone the lead-brick obliviousness of
certain anime leads. Oh, and there’s also the issue of some of the CGs
reflecting her *\*ahem\** original character design, but the less said
about that, the better.

Lilly’s path, too, isn’t all that thematically deep. As I’ve mentioned
in private discussions, though, it seems almost written specifically for
people who consider her their favorite character, and since I’m one of
those right sentimental fools, her arc is also my favorite out of the
five. It’s not shy about being a romantic melodrama; this does
admittedly work to its detriment in the final chapter, which is a bit
rushed and predictable, but even then I would be lying if I said that
the ending didn’t run me through the emotional wringer. Hisao, for his
part, manages to pull off some amazing maneuvers in courting Lilly, most
notably with the music box as a going-away gift. Maybe the setup was a
little too coincidental, but I’ll be damned if that wasn’t the smoothest
thing I’ve seen a protagonist do in a romantic visual novel. The
artwork, too, is just beautiful, and perhaps the most consistent of any
of the routes; the CG of Hisao and Lilly in a Hokkaido wheat field, in
particular, reminded me strongly of <cite>ef</cite> or <cite>5
cm/s</cite>, which is a good thing in my book.

Now for the two stories I expected to be the heaviest coming in: Rin’s
and Hanako’s. I’ll go over the latter first, because it bears a lot of
similarities to Lilly’s route. In this case, however, that’s not a good
thing, because, well, Lilly’s not supposed to be the focus any more –
Hanako is. Yet Acts 2 and 3 of her story felt like a recapitulation of
many of the events of Lilly’s arc, alongside the painfully slow
development of Hanako’s character and relationship with Hisao. Things
don’t really kick off until just before Act 4 begins, and by then it’s
too late to give the theme that eventually does emerge – Hanako’s
wanting to be seen as a capable person in her own right, not just
something to be protected – suitable consideration. I kind of wish that
Hanako’s bad-end outburst were a part of the main story, not just
something triggered by a rather incredible regression in protagonist
sensitivity, as it really lays the essential conflict bare. That and a
few other scenes, like her revealing the full extent of her scarring to
Hisao, did stand out in my mind. They’re worth the price of admission if
you’ve already played through Lilly’s route (plus you get a glimpse of
[Hanako’s adorable pouting
face](http://media.tumblr.com/tumblr_lyxvisYyda1qhcb4p.jpg)), but not
enough by themselves to make up for the route’s flaws.

Rin’s path does a better job of showing the obstacles that the main
couple has to overcome to really make their relationship work.
Unfortunately, one of those obstacles is Hisao’s own personality at the
beginning of the arc, where his insistence that Rin go forward with her
debut exhibition comes off as insensitive and irrationally exuberant. I
do have to cut the writer some slack, since Hisao is rather star-struck
at this point, but it’s frustrating to see him do it all the same, and
it’s hard not to feel that Hisao and Rin are just talking past each
other in an endless circle because of it. The route does manage to break
through and end on a high note, though, and in a natural fashion that
avoids turning Rin’s personality upside-down while still clearly showing
that she does trust Hisao. I feel compelled here to drop in a mention of
Rin’s “neutral” end, which brings up an interesting dilemma. Would she
be better off seizing a rare, promising chance at developing her talent
as an artist, or staying at Yamaku and learning to open up to Hisao and
her other classmates? Ultimately, I’m not sure there’s a good answer.

On the overall, <cite>Katawa Shoujo</cite> met my expectations, and in
fact simply blew them away at the best of times. I was especially
impressed with how polished the presentation was; the music was a real
highlight, so much so that I’d occasionally just leave the game open
while I did other things just so I could leave the soundtrack on in the
background. Fortunately, it’s available for [free
download](http://katawashoujo.blogspot.com/2012/01/katawa-shoujo-soundtrack-up-for.html)
now, so I don’t have to do that any more. The artwork was spottier,
particularly with some of the CGs, and there were a few noticeable
instances of suboptimal editing in the scripts, but I didn’t find these
issues too distracting. If you can get past the unfortunate two-word
description of <cite>Katawa Shoujo</cite> as “cripple porn,” you’ll find
a visual novel with sensitivity and a good bit of heart to it, and for
that I am grateful to the developers who spent so much time putting it
together.

Oh, one last thing. Iwanako doesn’t play all that much of a role in the
plot, aside from the prologue and her letter in each of the arcs. I
can’t say that she should have been more prominent – in the story, she’s
mostly a symbol of how Hisao overcomes his past burdens, and I’m fine
with that. I can’t be the only one curious, though, as to how a story
like this would play out from her perspective.

<% end %>
