---
title: UI-related things I'd like to see in (more) visual novels
created_at: 2012-02-10 04:24:38.000000000 +00:00
tags:
- visualnovel
- userinterfacedesign
---

-   Art designed to be displayed at 16:9 or 16:10, or at least a user
    interface that takes advantage of the extra space provided by
    widescreen displays. VNs in East Asian languages could place the
    text vertically in that area, perhaps.

-   Vectorized or high-resolution sprites, so that the game can be
    played at a resolution larger than the typical 800×600.

-   In fact, while I’m at it, resizable text.

-   A “branch rewind” system that makes it possible to pick some
    combination of choices and skip straight to the resulting branch,
    instead of having to use manual saves.
    [<cite>Flanca</cite>](http://at2006.haeleth.net/game.php?id=7) has
    something like this in its “index” (thanks to
    @[mnxmnkmnd](http://mnxmnkmnd.tumblr.com/) for pointing this out).

-   Individual scene replays, which <cite>Katawa Shoujo</cite> did very
    well along with the “instant replay” backlog accessible during the
    game.

-   Better keyboard control. Most visual novels provide some keyboard
    navigation, but it’s almost always incomplete somehow, such as not
    working for choice selection. There’s no reason I shouldn’t be able
    to use the arrow keys and Enter at a minimum. For bonus points,
    number the choices 1, 2, 3, etc. and make them selectable with the
    appropriate key. And for the love of God, please *document* all of
    the shortcuts somewhere in the manual, or make them configurable.
    (Just don’t be like the PC version of <cite>Remember11</cite>, which
    mapped PS2 buttons onto keyboard keys.)

Any other ideas?
