---
title: It that easy is not
created_at: 2012-02-17 06:42:00.000000000 +00:00
tags:
- l10n
- programming
- tumblr
- theme
---

I’m not sure how long this has been around, but Tumblr [has some support
for localizing themes](http://www.tumblr.com/docs/en/localizing_themes),
which means that you can write a single theme that supports all of the
languages that Tumblr does. At least that’s how it works in theory. I
say this because strings like the following indicate that it’s not at
all complete:

    {lang:Posted on DayOfMonth Month Year}
    {lang:Posted on Month DayOfMonth Year}

I see things like this way too often, so let me say it loud and clear:
**The order of date elements varies from language to language.**
American English typically uses month-day-year (“February 17, 2012”),
while in German the commonly accepted order is DMY (“17. Februar 2012”).
A Tumblr theme can’t support both of these conventions without
language-specific switching, which is what localization strings are
supposed to eliminate in the first place.

Japanese date support is especially bad, for two reasons. First, the
order is invariably year-month-day, which Tumblr doesn’t even provide an
option for. Second, Japanese and Chinese require the use of date
component suffixes when writing out full dates: 年 for the year, 月 for
the month, and 日 for the day of the month. (Korean does this as well,
except with hangul spellings for the Chinese characters.) A
properly-formatted date looks like this:

    2012年2月17日

Instead, at best, what Tumblr gives you is something like this:

    17 2月 2012

The incorrect order is obvious; the month is the only element that
retains its suffix because it’s allowed to be an arbitrary string of
characters, while the other components are required to be numeric.

I don’t mean to rag specifically on Tumblr for this; it’s a problem I’ve
encountered in numerous places, but one that stuck out to me here since
I’ve been working on [Dichotomy](http://blog.room208.org/dichotomy) a
little more lately. The proper solution is to have differing levels of
detail for each template tag, not a specific order. Most operating
systems have options for “short” (“2/17/2012”), “medium” (“February 17,
2012”), and “full” (“Friday, February 17, 2012”) date formats, and I
think that’s the best example to follow here.

That’s all. I’ll leave the complaining about not having a template tag
for ISO 8601 date formatting (which I need for `<time>`) for another
day.
