---
created_at: 2012-02-23 08:29:00.000000000 +00:00
tags:
- keyboardmashfiction
---

![](/blog/media/tumblr_lzu4zuM9IK1qhcb4p.png)

I was on duty at the listening post when the anomalous messages first
registered. The sender tags were obviously fake, seeing as how they
contained an encoded image of a clown’s face instead of coordinates.
That wasn’t the part that got to me, nor was it the actual payload,
which consisted of my name repeated over and over. It wasn’t exactly a
secret that I worked there; my name was listed as one of the staff on
the base’s public net node. It was creepy, sure, but not unusual.

No, what got under my skin was the location of the origin node.

Okay, if you don’t know the structure of first-generation interstellar
net messages from memory because, for instance, you’re a person with a
life, one that doesn’t revolve around technology that’s centuries out of
date, there are two ways to figure out where they come from. The first
is the sender-provided identification tag, which is only useful when
communicating with people other than douchebags with pictures of clown
faces. The second is the diagnostic information added at each relay.
Each of them has a vague idea of the direction and strength of the
incoming signal, and from that they can reckon where in space it
actually came from.

And this data told me that the message I had just received came from a
binary solar system with no habitable planets, hundreds of light-years
away from any known civilization.

I sent a reply to the indicated coordinates, expecting it to vanish off
into the void. *Hello, this is Sudalis Comms Outpost. Haha, you got me.
Now quit messing around.*

But not an hour later, I got a response from the clown.

*I don’t mess around.*
