---
created_at: 2012-03-29 04:48:45.000000000 +00:00
tags:
- visualnovel
- analogue
- userinterfacedesign
---

![](/blog/media/tumblr_m1mnp4p8ZZ1qhcb4p.png)

“Why won’t this stupid thing let me tab-complete commands, dammit? It’s
not seriously expecting me to type them all out, is it?”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

One of the things I enjoy about Christine Love’s visual novels is that
they expand the interface beyond the usual “click through pages of text
and occasionally make a choice” paradigm. The command line above, for
instance, is the way you first interact with a new game of
<cite>Analogue</cite>, while the main story itself is explored (with the
assistance of some AI helpers) through a graphical document browser that
can be launched from the initial text-mode shell. Even if what you’re
doing is in some sense essentially the same as with a regular VN –
reading long stretches of words on a screen – it feels like you’re
making some effort to discover the story on your own, rather than having
it just presented to you.

The layering of two different interfaces does an interesting job of both
distancing you from and bringing you further into the game’s plot. On
the one hand, the presence of another environment external to the main
archive reinforces your position as an outsider looking in on the
characters’ past; appropriate, as you play the role of someone sent in
to merely salvage the documents, not read them. On the other, though, it
also makes the game seem more real – this is how you’d actually be
interacting with the story if you were in the player character’s shoes,
remotely interfacing with the computers of a starship floating dead in
space. <cite>Analogue</cite> even explains why you can only give the AIs
information in the form of binary choices. It’s all impressively thought
out.

I’m also a fan of [the
soundtrack](http://isaacschankler.bandcamp.com/album/analogue-a-hate-story-ost),
which plays a big role in setting the atmosphere: isolated,
minimalistic, but not devoid of humanity.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

<cite>Analogue</cite> is, as with Love’s other visual novels, fairly
short; out of the five available endings, I’ve already finished one, and
that in just two and a half hours to boot. I’ll probably come back here
later with more detailed thoughts on the story proper once I’ve tackled
the other four. My initial impressions, though, are already very
positive.
