---
title: Shows I thought were cool in 2015
created_at: 2016-02-25 06:27:16.000000000 Z
tags:
- anime
- review
---

It’s been too long, but I don’t really have much to say, so let’s have
another list like [I did two years ago](/blog/posts/70728179447.html).
Maybe this time with some more words.

In approximate order from best to even better.

-   *Your Lie in April* (*Shigatsu wa Kimi no Uso*). The premise invites
    comparisons to *Nodame Cantabile*, which I think do this show a
    disservice — it never professes to be as mature or as musically
    rigorous, and holding it to that standard is rather unfair. While
    the dramatic turns do sometimes get predictable and circuitous, the
    show’s most beautiful moments make up for that. Yes, the intense
    swells of the score help.

-   *Prison School*. On the flip side, this is a series that no one in
    their right mind would take seriously at first glance. If you can
    get over its unabashed attachment to the lowbrow, though, you’ll be
    floored by how tightly the narrative is constructed, how the
    characters play off each other, and how the lewd, lurid, and
    juvenile actually fit into a plot where everyone seems to be a
    chessmaster. *Prison School* is the sort of work that lulls you into
    low expectations before proceeding to ambush you with competence.
    Or, [as I put it on
    Twitter](https://twitter.com/cdv2722/status/682110594540007425), if
    some anime are junk food, this is Alton Brown teaching you how to
    deep-fry Snickers.

-   *Noragami Aragoto*. Where the first series is overly focused on the
    whiny teenage rebellion of Yukine, played a bit too pitch-perfectly
    by Yuuki Kaji, the sequel gives us the *shounen* battles of wills
    that we waited a whole season to see. The evolving rivalry between
    Yato and Bishamon serves as the foundation for the rest of the
    show’s events, and it gives us a great sense of scale as other
    conflicts around them get broader and nastier. My only
    disappointment is with the ending theme, which isn’t quite as good
    as the last one. Alas, you can’t win ’em all.

-   *My Love Story!!* (*Ore Monogatari!!*). It’s what love would be like
    if love were about being as masculine as possible while
    simultaneously being as *shoujo* as possible. This sounds clearly
    self-contradictory, but much like with *Monthly Girls’ Nozaki*’s
    anarchic approach to *shoujo* clichés, it’s why the show works. The
    more ridiculous moments, like the protagonist saving his girlfriend
    from a literal falling I-beam by just holding it up, give the
    romance room to breathe without suffocating on an excess of
    self-seriousness. At the same time, *My Love Story!!* never stoops
    to mocking its characters — it really is just love, with a good old
    infusion of very hot blood.

-   *Shirobako*. It’s an anime about anime, which could have been a
    horrible exercise in navel-gazing, but ends up being the closest
    thing to genuinely fun edutainment that the medium has given us
    since *Moyashimon*. (If only the word “edutainment” didn’t sound so
    stupid.) We get an only-moderately-exaggerated sense of how the
    sausage is made, while P.A. Works gets in a sly wink and a nod about
    the foibles of themselves and their competitors. Seriously, did
    anyone *not* immediately think of Akiyuki Shinbou and *Madoka*?

-   *Working!!!* Just as fun as the first two seasons, except things
    actually happen. I’d ordinarily shy away from spoilers, but come on,
    we all know who’s finally shacking up. The important part is that
    the warm, fuzzy moments come without betraying the adorably neurotic
    personalities of the characters we’ve come to love. Or at least
    laugh at in twenty-four-minute increments.

-   *Owarimonogatari*. I’ve mentioned before that my ability to
    objectively evaluate the quality of any *Monogatari Series*
    installment has probably long been compromised, but this installment
    really does strike me as another high note, after the mildly muddled
    mess that is the *Tsukimonogatari* miniseries. Marina Inoue, mostly
    known for playing boisterous characters like *Minami-ke*’s Kana,
    balances out her performance as Sodachi Oikura with a remarkable
    vulnerability and nuance. The show’s second arc doesn’t shine quite
    as brightly, but still brings enough twists and turns to keep us
    wanting more — and, of course, that typographically-endowed flair
    isn’t going anywhere.

See you in 2017! You should watch *Erased*, because unless it totally
squibs its ending, it’s going to be on this list then.

Also, I guess I lied about not having much to say.
