---
title: Game over, man, game over
created_at: 2018-01-10T08:42:27Z
tags:
- anime
- inuyashiki
---

<figure markdown="1">
![](/blog/media/20180110084227-0.jpg)
</figure>

As *Inuyashiki*'s antagonist was busy massacring an entire police
precinct, midway through the show's eighth episode, I realized why the
series had been giving me an incredible sense of déjà vu. The arc of
events was basically indistinguishable from a player's boredom-induced
wanton murder streak in *Grand Theft Auto*. On a lark, the killer offs a
couple of random bystanders. When the cops get involved, they find
themselves no match for the killer's walking munitions depot. Maybe a
couple of cheat codes get deployed. Hundreds of nameless, faceless
extras die in the carnage. It's less a story than a fill-in-the-blank
exercise: "Unstoppable, remorseless murderer claims \_\_\_\_\_\_ lives
in latest spree," with the numbers going up exponentially each time
until the killer loses interest and quits.

To reach these tedious depths, *Inuyashiki* has to thoroughly squander
an actually intriguing premise. The title character, a late-fifties
salaryman who goes unappreciated by everyone in his life except his pet
dog, is out for an evening walk when an errant alien spaceship crashes
nearby, killing him. As a mea culpa, the E.T.s build Mr. Inuyashiki a
new, cosmetically identical mechanical body before hurriedly going on
their merry way. It turns out that the new skin has a couple more
features than the old one, like flight, bullet-proofing, and an
autonomous missile defense system. Mr. Inuyashiki, a kind soul at heart,
quickly sets out to use his newfound powers for good. The catch? Someone
else also got upgraded in the accident, and contrary to his name "Hiro,"
this one is a nihilistic teenager who cares little for innocent lives.

It all seems like the perfect setup for a titanic clash of wills,
underpinned by some rumination on what it means to be human. A bit of a
cliché, sure, but Mr. Inuyashiki is in a refreshingly different stage of
life from the typical inadvertent superhero, or even anime protagonist.
And Hiro, his foil, takes his sociopathic mantle in a chilling
ten-minute sequence where he breaks into a Tokyo family's home and
methodically disposes of its members one by one. He is so unbothered by
what he's doing that he can casually ask one of his terrified victims
who her favorite *One Piece* character is, seconds before killing her.

Before long, however, the script loses interest in developing either
hero or villain. *Inuyashiki*'s middle section is little more than a
river of blood, as the plot gives Hiro progressively flimsier reasons to
escalate his rampage until all of Japan lies in his sights. (Like *Grand
Theft Auto*, though, the show ultimately pulls its punches when children
are the ones in danger.) Mr. Inuyashiki himself, meanwhile, gets
essentially written out of his own series, leaving us to wonder what the
hell he's doing while Hiro's genocidal acts blanket the news. The two
don't get around to sparring until the penultimate episode, just in time
for a *deus ex machina* conclusion that renders moot what little
advancement we see in either character.

The animation, while not nearly as bad as the plot, can't fully decide
what it wants to be. Early episodes use 3D heavily for Hiro and Mr.
Inuyashiki's machine forms, a nice hint that they're a little different
from everyone else, but this doesn't remain totally consistent through
the rest of the series, and the models don't have the detail they need
to hold up in high action scenes. The 2D work on some of the side
characters, too, is sketchy enough that I found myself wondering what
they were intended to look like. But how much would improving the
visuals really have helped? After all, if video game graphics suffer
from diminishing returns, it's hard to see how *Inuyashiki*, with all of
its resemblance to a mediocre gaming stream, would benefit that much
more.
