---
title: Winter 2012 capsule reviews
created_at: 2012-04-02 16:38:00.000000000 +00:00
tags:
- anime
- review
---

Scores are out of 10.

-   <cite>Thermae Romae</cite> didn’t get the treatment it deserved,
    especially given the other offerings in noitaminA this season, but
    it still manages to charm even with just three episodes. Just try to
    ignore the low-budget animation. **7**

-   <cite>Nisemonogatari</cite> doesn’t quite live up to the standard
    set by its predecessor; the series spends a little too much time on
    quirks that were already established in <cite>Bakemonogatari</cite>,
    and leaves the main story a little compressed. Still, given such a
    high bar, that hardly condemns it to failure, and the show is still
    outrageous fun nonetheless. The new characters are solid and the
    dialogue retains that trademark Nisio Isin wit. It’s plenty to whet
    the appetite before <cite>Kizumonogatari</cite> lands later this
    year. **8**

-   <cite>Black Rock Shooter</cite>’s characters seem to have the
    psychological resilience of a house of cards, and I don’t even know
    how to react to the story and pacing, which are some of the messiest
    I’ve ever seen in anime. The creators may have had only eight
    episodes to work with, but from the evidence I don’t think giving
    them another four or five would have helped at all. Maybe they
    should have let <cite>Thermae Romae</cite> have them instead. **3**

-   <cite>Guilty Crown</cite> hasn’t gotten any better since I wrote [my
    last review](http://blog.room208.org/post/19924428985). In fairness,
    though, I’ll mention that Hiroyuki Sawano’s soundtrack is pretty
    good as long as you pretend that the non-Japanese lyrics really are
    just gibberish. **4**

-   <cite>Amagami SS+</cite> is just as hopelessly awkward as the first
    season, and even fluffier because it doesn’t have to really bother
    with that whole “plot” thing, but I can live with that. **6**

-   <cite>Chihayafuru</cite>… wow. Simply amazing from top to bottom. I
    hope the rumors of a second season are true. **9**
