---
created_at: 2012-05-05 19:04:00.000000000 +00:00
tags:
- keyboardmashfiction
- appendix
- mechanics
---

The core of magic in Sayuri’s world is the *magical field*, which covers
a magically-endowed being’s immediate vicinity and gives a medium for
his or her abilities. Outside of a field, magical powers simply have no
effect; this means that offensive magic is essentially useless on a
non-magical target, though defensive abilities can still be used as the
wielder is always surrounded by his or her own field. In particular, the
field provides an intrinsic barrier against external physical harm;
magical girls have been known to survive falls from skyscrapers, oxygen
deprivation, point-blank shootings, and various other things that would
surely kill a normal human being. It does not confer protection against
diseases or self-inflicted injury, however.

When two magical fields are in close proximity, about ten to fifteen
meters, they begin to grow in size and attract each other in a process
called *magical resonance*. Even novice users of magic can typically
detect other magical beings nearby through these fluctuations. Highly
experienced magicians can suppress some of the resonance at longer
distances by manipulating their own fields, thus achieving a limited
degree of stealth, but in close quarters it is virtually impossible to
go undetected.

Two resonating fields will eventually become close enough to touch,
creating a conduit for offensive powers. Once formed, this channel is
relatively difficult to break; especially tenacious one-on-one fights
have been fought at distances of over thirty meters. In addition, the
strength of magical field resonance increases proportionally to the
number of fields involved, such that the linked fields of five or six
magical beings can easily cover the entirety of a soccer pitch. Those
concerned about collateral damage, needless to say, try to avoid large
battles at all costs.
