---
title: The first thing we do, let's fire all of marketing
created_at: 2012-07-08 01:53:55.000000000 +00:00
tags:
- anime
- sankarea
- review
---

I love anime with real depth. You think they’re just about one thing,
but they end up being about so much more. Take *Sankarea*. At first
glance, it looks like a generic wish-fulfillment romance, except With
Zombies™. In fact, that description is why I initially skipped out on
the show. But it’s not just that. In fact, it’s not even mostly that.

No, see, it’s *actually* about how much one incredibly creepy,
out-of-touch man can screw things up for everyone around him.

![](/blog/media/tumblr_m6eirb6EqC1qhcb4p.jpg)

I’m being a bit frivolous, but *Sankarea* really is a show that adds up
to more than the sum of its advertised parts. Much of this, of course,
is due to the fact that the show’s primary strengths were left out of
the preview blurbs. True, it’s hard to sell cinematography ([a highlight
of the series](http://blog.room208.org/post/24087133033)) unless you’ve
got a big name in the director’s chair. But early descriptions of the
show barely even hinted at the core of the story – a struggle for
normalcy and freedom from an asphyxiating family situation – and placed
a tad too much emphasis on the whole “zombie” thing. Given those low
standards, it’s perhaps unsurprising that *Sankarea* exceeds them, but
even ignoring that handicap, the show provides its share of compelling
drama. The last episode is clearly leaving a lot of room open for a
second season, which I can only hope will retain the same atmosphere.
7/10.
