---
created_at: 2012-07-11 03:30:15.000000000 +00:00
tags:
- quote
- dilbert
- meeting
---

> For years I employed the “Final Suggestion Maneuver” in meetings in
> which I knew that opinions would vary and that only my own opinion has
> any value. In other words, I used it in every meeting I ever attended.
> The success rate of this approach is nothing short of astonishing… It
> works like this.
>
> 1.  Let everybody else make moronic suggestions.
>
> 2.  Stay uninvolved while the participants shred each other’s
>     suggestions like crisp cabbage in a Cuisinart. Watch as they
>     develop intense personal dislikes that will last their entire
>     careers.
>
> 3.  Toward the end of the allotted meeting time, when patience is thin
>     and bladders are full, offer your suggestion. Describe it as a
>     logical result of the good thoughts you’ve heard at the meeting,
>     no matter how ridiculous that might be.
>
> If you time it right, all the participants will be feeling a sense of
> incredible frustration and physical discomfort and will realize that
> your suggestion is the fastest way to end the horror of the meeting.
> By disguising your suggestion as a composite of the participants’
> thoughts you minimize their need to attack you to defend their
> hard-argued positions.
>
> You’ll look like the rational deal-maker while the other participants
> look like partisan whiners. The only downside is that you won’t be
> singularly identified with the idea if it works. But that’s typically
> not a problem, since most ideas don’t work. And your boss takes credit
> for the ones that do.

– Scott Adams, *The Dilbert Principle*, pp. 125-126
