---
created_at: 2012-08-22 00:43:21.000000000 +00:00
tags:
- theroadtofaust
---

An anonymous correspondent writes:

> What do you hope to accomplish?

I used to think my life would be over by the time I turned 23. I don’t
mean this in the literal sense, of course, but in my late teenage years
I just couldn’t see my adult life in anything but the most abstract
terms. I had these vague notions of finding a steady job, getting
married, and settling down, but that was about it. As someone who’d
never even been to a wedding in his entire life, and the first in my
extended family to be born in America, I had this sense that I was fast
rushing into something that I had absolutely no comprehension of. My own
ambitions were vague enough that I didn’t even have the feeling that I’d
be able to leave a clearly individual mark on my own life.

Thinking back on it now, at an age where I’d be all but dead to my
younger self, I don’t think I ever really solved that problem. What I
did realize, though, was that it ultimately didn’t matter. Worrying
myself over the future like that never made me any more equipped to
handle it, and more importantly, it made me overlook what was going on
in the present right in front of me. I was, essentially, too farsighted
for my own good.

So, to answer your question, I don’t, at least not anything concrete.
I’m at a stage in life where I can afford to be a little flighty and
experimental. I figure I should take advantage of that before sitting
down to plot out anything beyond “do what feels right.”
