---
created_at: 2012-09-16 19:33:01.000000000 +00:00
tags:
- anime
- noitamina
- natsuyukirendezvous
- review
---

![](/blog/media/tumblr_magfsjNPgF1qhcb4p.jpg)

It may have a lot of flowers, but *Natsuyuki Rendezvous* is not a pretty
show. I’m not talking about the visuals, of course; the technical
execution is fluent enough to make discussion superfluous. No, the
ugliness lies in the characters and the story built around them, one
that’s rent with jealousy, dishonesty, and selfishness.

This dark, cynical view of romance is actually refreshing, in a way – a
mature acknowledgment that well-intentioned misunderstandings don’t even
begin to cover the depths to which human relationships can plunge.
*Natsuyuki Rendezvous* simply makes its point a little *too* well. It
does a good job of showing how flawed its main cast can be, but often
forgets to balance the negative with a little of the positive. Even if
the intent is to illustrate that love isn’t the panacea that it’s often
cast as, it’s hard to take this lesson in stride when the characters
seem drawn towards their own destruction from the outset. The heart of
the story, after all, kicks into action when one side of the central
love triangle gets himself drunk, then in a fit of self-loathing agrees
to let the ghost of his beloved’s dead former husband take over his
body. It takes him nearly the entire series to realize that this might
not have been such a good idea.

I wouldn’t go so far as to condemn *Natsuyuki Rendezvous*’ characters as
bad people. On a logical level, their words and actions make sense to
me, given their respective histories. On an emotional level, though, the
series veers dangerously close to making them impossible to relate to,
something that never bodes well for a romantic story. It’s this division
that leaves me rather ambivalent about the show as a whole. If you want
a quantitative verdict, I’ll give it a 6 of 10, but more so than usual,
I don’t think a number is nearly representative enough.
