---
title: Wholly premature judgments on anime quality, fall 2012 edition
created_at: 2012-10-24 00:39:49.000000000 +00:00
tags:
- anime
---

## Excellent

-   *My Little Monster* (*Tonari no Kaibutsu-kun*) – Oh, man. Shizuku
    and Haru are easily the best anime couple I’ve seen in a while, and
    it looks like my worries that the relationship would get too
    one-sided have so far been unfounded. I am loving every moment.

-   *Regardless of My Adolescent Delusions of Grandeur, I Want a Date!*
    (*Chuunibyou demo Koi ga Shitai!*, or: how I learned to stop
    worrying and just copy-paste long anime titles) – I love it when a
    show just revels in its absurdity. The character interactions are
    off-the-wall hilarious, and KyoAni is definitely pulling out all the
    stops on the imaginary fight scenes.

## Pretty good

-   *From the New World* (*Shinsekai Yori*) – I wasn’t entirely
    impressed by how the fourth episode handled establishing the
    setting, as it just poured information at viewers, but the main cast
    is holding up all right in its characterization, and the atmosphere
    is top-notch. This is definitely shaping up to be the most
    interesting show this season, even if it may not be the outright
    best.

-   *Say “I love you.”* (*Suki-tte ii na yo.*) – This is *My Little
    Monster*’s more serious cousin in more than a few ways, so much so
    that sometimes the solemnness drags the show down. Still, while the
    chemistry between Mei and Yamato isn’t all there, there’s enough of
    a spark to keep me watching, and it looks like the show’s main
    dramatic turns are just getting started.

## On shaky ground

-   *Psycho-Pass* – This may not be a fair assessment when less than a
    tenth of the show has aired, but *Psycho-Pass* is struggling to find
    out exactly what it’s trying to say, which isn’t a good sign when
    the setting seems explicitly designed to send some kind of message.
    Akane, too, has some issues as a viewpoint character. Madoka, the
    obvious point of comparison, could get away with being the innocent
    lead thrown into an incomprehensible jumble because Kyuubey didn’t
    give her much of a choice in the matter. Akane, on the other hand,
    chose to be a law enforcement officer, which makes her clashing
    personality and lack of preparation for the situations that she
    encounters seem more like incompetence than naiveté. I suppose I can
    afford to give *Psycho-Pass* some time to fill out its shoes,
    though, what with there being twenty episodes left.

-   *Robotics;Notes* – Yeah, noitaminA’s not doing so hot right now, is
    it? *R;N* is suffering from some of the same aimlessness that
    *Psycho-Pass* is. In this case, it promises a tale of saving the
    world, but then fails to work in that direction in any consistent
    fashion, instead electing to cut back to something that seems like
    *Tari Tari* with robots. As you may be able to tell from the fact
    that I didn’t finish *Tari Tari*, I don’t consider that a positive
    thing. Again, there are still 1.818 cours to go on this, so I don’t
    want to be too harsh. But still.
