---
created_at: 2013-01-06 21:20:42.000000000 +00:00
tags:
- anime
- kokoroconnect
- review
---

![](/blog/media/tumblr_inline_mg80gxB1fJ1qhcb4p.jpg)

![](/blog/media/tumblr_inline_mg80hbikoj1qhcb4p.jpg)

*Kokoro Connect*’s first three arcs, the ones that made up its original
television run, had a single recurrent, frustrating problem that loomed
over all else. Now, to the show’s credit, it was one brought on by doing
something well. I’ll be the first to admit that I initially brushed the
series off after reading the short preview blurb; after all, you and I
and everyone we know have seen *Freaky Friday* already, so why would we
need an anime version? Fortunately, *Kokoro Connect* managed to break
out of being simple formula, partly by extending the antics of main
antagonist Heartseed beyond mere body-swapping, but also by doing an
excellent job of establishing its characters and the emotional ups and
downs that Heartseed’s actions put them through. Once it was done with
the setup, though, the *problem* reared its ugly head – towards the end
of each arc, when the show actually had to untangle the dramatic knots
it had so eagerly tied itself in, it found that it didn’t even know
where to begin, and as such the resulting conclusions came off as
contrived and distinctly unsatisfactory. The first arc ended with a
forced intervention from Heartseed, who explained it away as the result
of boredom, and the second and third arcs tried to change the subject
and hope viewers didn’t notice.

Well, the good news is that *Kokoro Connect* figured out how to break
out of this vicious cycle in its final arc, which resolves its emotional
tensions via a much simpler route: lots of cathartic outbursts, which
seems doubly appropriate for an arc that revolves around the main
characters having the secrets they kept from each other forced out into
the open. The bad news is that the writers don’t seem to have realized
that this means that they don’t need to add a dramatic twist at the end.
While it’s something that can ultimately be ignored without detracting
from the arc’s sense of closure, the unnecessary turn is outlandish
enough to overshadow some of the positive aspects of the show’s final
episode, including a romantic conclusion that strives for an odd nuance
I haven’t seen since *True Tears*.

In the end, if I had to judge *Kokoro Connect* on how it matched up to
my expectations going in, I have to say it blew them away, mostly
because I didn’t really give it a fair shake at first. If I had to rate
it on the goals that it seemed to set up for itself, though, I’d have a
much harder time saying that it succeeded. Maybe the best way to put it
is that it failed gracefully, which might not be so bad after all.
