---
created_at: 2013-03-25 18:00:00.000000000 +00:00
tags:
- anime
- madoka
---

After the break: Wishes are dangerous, m'kay?

<!-- more -->

------------------------------------------------------------------------

@[the-world-is-a-corner](http://the-world-is-a-corner.tumblr.com/)
[writes](http://the-world-is-a-corner.tumblr.com/post/46258165839/abandonmentprobability-psycho-pass-as-the),
in response to [my post comparing *Madoka* and *Psycho-Pass*’
endings](http://blog.room208.org/post/46217750620):

> There WAS something preventing other Magical Girls from making
> Madoka’s wish. And that is, none of them had the absurd amount of
> potential Madoka possessed. Kyubey specifically said Madoka was “the
> most powerful Magical Girl” - it took an insane amount of magic to
> make her wish come true, an amount I think we can be quite sure no one
> before her ever possessed. They were limited in that sense - Madoka
> had a much wider number of options to change the system because she
> had a lot more brute power to work with.

I got a couple of responses to this effect, and I want to say that while
the concept of “magical potential” is a valid justification in-story, it
doesn’t hold much water for me as a narrative device. This is largely
because we never see this constraint actually *restricting* anybody’s
ability to make a wish, and as such it seems like an abstract limitation
tossed in at the last minute to satisfy a technical loophole instead of
something that must really be fought. This is in fact one of the things
I was worried about almost from the moment the concept of wishes came up
in *Madoka*’s early episodes; without concrete boundaries on what is and
isn’t possible, boundaries that are shown to be very much in effect from
the outset, any story resolution that involves such an open-ended
mechanic is just asking for trouble. If we had seen a character try and
fail to make the same wish that Madoka eventually did, Kyuubey’s
statement might have had a little more substance, but as it stands it
feels a bit like bringing up general relativity during a go-kart race.
