---
title: The traditional visual novel save system needs to die
created_at: 2013-04-08 18:21:00.000000000 +00:00
tags:
- visualnovel
- mechanics
- userinterfacedesign
---

I wrote this in about 15 minutes, so some of the phrasing here might not
be up to scratch. Bear with me.

For the majority of visual novels, saves do not represent what we might
ordinarily think of when we think of game save states: a self-contained
snapshot of game progress. Progress is instead tracked globally,
independent of any particular save. What most visual novels term “saves”
are really composed of just two things: (1) a list of choices the player
has made, and (2) the specific scene or line from which to resume
gameplay. Choices made when resuming from one saved game often affect
what’s available when resuming from another. *Remember11* sticks out in
my mind as one particularly infamous example of the confusion this
causes, but this problem affects nearly all visual novels that use a
traditional save system to some extent.

The problematic nature of this abstraction is compounded by the fact
that most visual novels don’t provide a way to easily jump from one
scene to another. Instead, the player is often expected to “save” before
every major decision point, and resume from there should he or she have
picked the wrong choice, or want 100% completion, or need a refresher on
what’s happened since then. Forgot to save? Tough luck. You’ll have to
fast-forward through text you’ve already seen in order to get back to
where you were before, dragging yourself out of the game’s narrative
frame. This is a terrible user experience, and it’s almost never one
that’s justified by narrative considerations. Unless the visual novel is
itself about the drudgery of boring, repetitive tasks, in which case I
question why anyone would feel the need to play it at all, this puts a
completely unnecessary burden on the player.

The whole metaphor around visual novel saves needs to be rearranged.
Here’s how I’d like to see it:

-   Saves wholly encapsulate player progress. I should be able to play
    one save without accidentally changing what happens in another. A
    new game should be a new game, regardless of what I’ve done in
    previous ones. “New Game+” options might, in cases where they’re
    clearly delineated, be an exception. *Might.*

-   The player can freely, and easily, jump to any scene that’s already
    been unlocked, without having to go through and play that path
    again. Just being able to replay a certain scene isn’t good enough,
    because that carries no information about the choices the player has
    made. Various games provide a flowchart; the last one I played that
    did this was *Virtue’s Last Reward*, which did a good job overall of
    avoiding this kind of save confusion. Visual novels that don’t have
    a branching narrative, or that don’t want to give away the
    importance of certain choices, can provide a simple summary ballot,
    where the user can say, all at once, “I want to **spend the
    afternoon with Asuna**, then **go to the park**, and **follow the
    stray kitten**.” There’s always the option for players to go through
    old scenes in the traditional fashion, should they need a refresher.

-   Finally, what used to be “saves” now become “bookmarks” that the
    player can create and name in order to quickly pick up with certain
    choices at a specific point. This is useful in case the player needs
    to consult the information there, such as in a mystery VN, or just
    has a favorite scene that he or she wants to file away and revisit
    in the future.

Okay, that’s all. Have fun.
