---
title: A different house of leaves
created_at: 2013-06-04 21:15:00.000000000 +00:00
tags:
- thegardenofwords
- makotoshinkai
- anime
- review
---

![](/blog/media/tumblr_inline_mnvvxvoVBF1qz4rgp.jpg)

One of my biggest frustrations with Makoto Shinkai’s earlier work,
*Voices of a Distant Star* especially, was how Shinkai always looked to
be in some inexplicable hurry. With more emotionally resonant scenes, in
particular, he tended to cut away before the images and words had gotten
a chance to fully sink in. Even when he was at his most adept in *5
Centimeters Per Second*, I still found myself wishing that he would let
his settings and characters breathe a little, especially given how
stunning his visual depictions were.

*The Garden of Words* does not, strictly speaking, fix this problem. The
first twenty minutes of its forty-five-minute run time positively fly
by, really, as Takao Akizuki goes (or doesn’t go) to school, watches his
family drift apart, and strikes up a relationship with a mysterious
older woman he meets in the [Shinjuku
Gyoen](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shinjuku_Gyoen) gardens. For the
first time, though, this fast pace seems to be exactly what Shinkai is
aiming for. Combined with the ever-impressive animation that is his
trademark, the first half forms a tight yet beautiful expression of the
whirlwind that is falling for someone else. Indeed, the whole film plays
out as if Shinkai is developing his own peculiar art form, that of
packing straightforward emotion into an ever more densely-written
shorthand, and looked at from this angle, it’s hard not to call *The
Garden of Words* an unqualified success.

This approach does, of course, have its downsides. Shinkai’s aggressive
distillation of his premise to its most basic elements will leave not a
few viewers wanting for something more ambitious. However, after the
mild disappointment of his previous feature-length, *Children Who Chase
Lost Voices*, which consciously tried to reach for a epic scale, this
may have been the movie that Shinkai needed to make. When it comes down
to it, *The Garden of Words* is a powerfully concise assertion that no
one else can beat Makoto Shinkai at his own game.

P.S. Kana Hanazawa continues to impress as she expands into roles that I
never would have thought could fit Nadeko Sengoku’s voice actress.
