---
created_at: 2013-07-01 01:43:35.000000000 +00:00
tags:
- theflowersofevil
- anime
- review
---

![](/blog/media/tumblr_inline_mp8dhss3OZ1qz4rgp.jpg)

It’s clear from even a cursory viewing that a lot of talented people
worked on *The Flowers of Evil*. The evidence of their presence is
everywhere, not least in the show’s excellent background art and music
direction. Even the much-maligned decision to use rotoscoping as the
basis of the show’s animation at least indicated a willingness to think
outside of the box. Unfortunately, *The Flowers of Evil* seems entirely
too content to let these talents go to waste, squandering them with a
chaotic, poorly-thought-out execution that too often strays into
absurdity. Sure, I know there are production reasons for having a
19-year-old actor play the middle-school-age protagonist struggling with
peculiarly middle-school-age problems, but they hardly make the end
result any less bizarre to watch. On top of this, the show’s core
philosophical conflict, the one that you would hope would be compelling
enough to justify the series’ persistently self-serious, humorless
atmosphere, is delivered with the subtlety of a brick to the face. The
plot delivers few real surprises, just a slow, predictable realization
of the main cast’s self-destructive tendencies. Only once or twice
throughout did I feel like the show truly impressed, most particularly
with a nighttime classroom scene towards the midpoint that might as well
have been a trailer showing off what the animation and music teams could
do with their unique approach. Otherwise, *The Flowers of Evil* is
generally a muddle that seems to want to make a point before it quite
understands what that point actually is.
