---
title: Using custom fonts with Dichotomy
created_at: 2014-01-29 23:30:00.000000000 +00:00
tags:
- dichotomy
- typography
- css
- followeroutreach
---

@[abandonedsteel](http://abandonedsteel.tumblr.com/)
[writes](http://abandonedsteel.tumblr.com/post/74972082075/dichotomy-3-0):

> Just one question - do you, perhaps, have suggestions for alternate
> monospace fonts? And if so, how would I use them in this theme?

Certainly. The most important thing to note when selecting a typeface is
that Dichotomy expects normal, bold, and italic styles to all have the
same character width. For instance, links turn bold when the mouse
cursor moves over them, and if the typeface you’re using has normal and
bold fonts with different character widths, you’re going to end up with
text jumping all over the place.

A small digression about browser font synthesis: If you ask for a bold
font in a font family that doesn’t contain one, most browsers will fake
one by simply doubling some pixels horizontally. Needless to say, this
means that the mock bold font will not have the same character width as
the original. Browsers will also synthesize italic fonts when needed by
applying a uniform slant to the glyphs, but the character width isn’t
affected by this process, and so it’s okay if the typeface doesn’t have
italics. If it does, though, it had better also have a separate bold
italic font, otherwise bold synthesis will ruin everything again.

Dichotomy uses [Ubuntu Mono](http://font.ubuntu.com/) by default, which
conveniently has regular, bold, italic, and bold-italic variants. Early
versions used [Lekton](http://lektongroups.blogspot.co.uk/), which I
liked but unfortunately committed the cardinal sin of having an italic
without a bold italic.

## Okay, okay, so how do you do it?

In short, head over to *Advanced options*, and enter something like the
following in the *Custom CSS* box:

    body {
        font-family: "MyFace", monospace;
    }

You’d replace `"MyFace"` with the name of your preferred font family, of
course, preserving the quotes. That `monospace` at the end is important
to ensure that people who can’t use the font you specified still get
something monospaced. Don’t leave home without it.

## System fonts

It’d be great if we could pick a monospaced font family that’s already
installed on everyone’s computers, so we wouldn’t have to add code to
download the font files from elsewhere. Sadly, it’s slim pickings here.
[Consolas](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Consolas) comes with Windows
and Office these days, and may be your best bet on this route. OS X
ships a decent version of Courier, but Courier New on Windows is thin
and spindly and hard to read and I hate it. Don’t use it.

## Web fonts

Okay, so let’s take a look at some downloadable web fonts. This option
requires more work, but it carries the advantage that most browsers will
automatically download the required font files, sidestepping the problem
of default system availability. Ordinarily, I would point you to [Google
Fonts](https://www.google.com/fonts) and say, “Search away!” But even
though they provide options for searching by various font attributes,
fixed width is not among them. Never fear, though, because I’ve compiled
a shortlist of typefaces available there that satisfy our criteria:

-   [Anonymous Pro](https://www.google.com/fonts/specimen/Anonymous+Pro)
-   [Inconsolata](https://www.google.com/fonts/specimen/Inconsolata)
-   [Source Code
    Pro](https://www.google.com/fonts/specimen/Source+Code+Pro)

(Yow, that really *was* short.) To use one of these fonts, you’ll need
to follow the *Open \[font name\] in Google Fonts* link near the top of
the specimen page. Check the appropriate styles to include – you’ll want
at least *Normal 400* and *Bold 700*, as well as any italic variants if
they’re present – then scroll down to step 3. Select the `@import` tab,
and copy and paste the code there *at the top* of your custom CSS,
before any other declarations. Then change the font family name as I
mentioned above, and save.

If you’re using Dichotomy with custom HTML, this won’t work properly due
to an oversight in versions up to 3.0 – but in that case I trust you can
read [the diff fixing this
problem](https://github.com/kxz/dichotomy/commit/d5ebe4b4e4a3626e8172967e9b0cac0d7f40775a)
and make changes to the code accordingly.

## Any questions?

I hope this guide was reasonably clear, but if not, you can always send
me e-mail or [grumble to me via Tumblr
asks](http://blog.room208.org/ask).
