---
created_at: 2014-02-18 15:53:00.000000000 +00:00
tags:
- servantxservice
- video
- music
- anime
---

<%= render '/blog/_video.haml', url: '/blog/media/tumblr_n15j2dDEcX1qim2zw.mp4' %>

Anime opening and closing sequences are usually rather perfunctory; even
good music can’t mask the fact that they’re mostly there to put a bunch
of names in front of your face. *Servant × Service* is one of those rare
series that manages to buck this trend with an opening animation that’s
actually compelling in its own right. The sequence smoothly incorporates
the credits and characters into a dynamic version of the show’s office
locale that mixes animation and photography – on the one hand
reinforcing the environment, on the other literally physically
deconstructing it with reckless whimsical abandon. The use of
natural-looking typography not only keeps the text of the credits from
sticking out like a sore thumb, but also leaves the show’s distinctly
human mark on a setting that is often bland and impersonal. Backed by
peppy theme music sung by the female voice cast, the opening does a
perfect job of establishing the show’s lighthearted, comedic tone. It’s
something to look forward to at the beginning of every episode, unlike
most of its largely skippable anime credit brethren, and no less than an
integral part of *Servant × Service*’s charm. Future animators, take
note.

(Aside: Surely the entire reason you save a post as a draft is to revise
it later, right? Then why in the world does Tumblr hide the “Edit”
command for drafts behind an opaque gear menu?)
