---
created_at: 2014-03-13 21:04:00.000000000 +00:00
tags:
- webdev
- css
- tumblr
- followeroutreach
---

@[usgmr](http://usgmr.tumblr.com/) writes:

> Woah, oneechan noticed me. haha. Anyway, right! Totally forgot to
> include !important on the post. It sucks how they actually put this
> into the whole DOM at all. I mean display: none !important works
> alright without the hack bec their display attr doesn't have
> !important. So does that mean they're alright with themes hiding it
> but not repositioning it? And I wish on the documentation. It's not
> even complete. {PermalinkPagination} and {ReblogURL} aren't even there
> when they're so useful.

It’s arguably impossible for Tumblr to keep someone from overriding
their CSS, in this case. Practically speaking, there’s an infinitude of
ways to make selectors more specific by matching on attribute values.
The way I see it – and this is just my blind speculation – Tumblr’s
motivation for choosing to override the rules they have is mostly driven
by two practical considerations.

First, they’d like to override older stylesheets that don’t take the new
control style into account. People tend not to apply `!important` to
their CSS declarations without a good reason, after all. So they pick
the two rules that are most likely to be changed by themes, and change
those back.

After that, Tumblr wants to make it difficult enough to override the
positioning that most developers won’t bother to do so, in what I
presume are the interests of consistency. Hence the very specific
selectors. I have to admit that if
[Dichotomy](http://blog.room208.org/dichotomy)’s navigation wasn’t fixed
in the top right corner of the viewport, I probably wouldn’t even have
noticed.

On the principle of it, though, I think this approach is entirely
wrongheaded. I’d rather Tumblr make things like the controls an explicit
part of theme customization, and simply encourage designers to take them
into account when creating themes. The fact that they operate the Theme
Garden gives them quite a bit of leverage in encouraging themes not to
hide the standard controls – they [already do this for other aspects of
a theme’s
design](http://www.tumblr.com/docs/en/theme_submission_guidelines). The
“my way or the highway” attitude doesn’t work well when, ultimately,
you’re literally giving the user full control over the page’s
stylesheets.
