---
title: What's the story, Wishbone?
created_at: 2014-05-04 13:56:00.000000000 +00:00
tags:
- madoka
- anime
- review
- spoilers
---

![](/blog/media/tumblr_inline_n51wagKaUe1qhcb4p.jpg)

How *Madoka: Rebellion* shows that patching isn’t just for video games,
and why that’s a good thing, after the break. Spoilers ahoy!

<% render '/blog/_more.haml' do %>

If you’ve been reading this blog for a while, you may recall that [I did
not like the ending of the original *Madoka* TV
series](http://blog.room208.org/post/46217750620). In short, even if the
title character’s power to make a game-changing wish was consistent with
the universe’s internal rules, it seemed to come so far out of nowhere
that it undermined the emotional narrative that the rest of the series
had taken its time to so painstakingly establish.

I loved *The Rebellion Story*’s conclusion, on the other hand, and not
simply because it was dark or contrarian – it actually reaches back in
time, in appropriately Homura-esque fashion, to fix the sins its
predecessor committed. Logically speaking, after all, Homura’s countless
attempts to save Madoka should have inflicted their trauma on her in
equal measure to the power it lent Madoka’s wish. *Rebellion* ultimately
makes good on this promise, by using that trauma to transform Homura
into an entity powerful enough to counter what Madoka became at the end
of the TV series. In the process, it changes what had been a one-off
*deus ex machina* into a pattern identifiable through the narrative
alone. The sequel, in essence, justifies its own presence by
retroactively rewriting the frame through which we see the original.

Not that this is the only thing that *Rebellion* has going for it. One
of my favorite things about long-running SHAFT productions is the way
they gradually construct a visual language with each installment,
applying the same underlying principles to new settings.
*Bakemonogatari* revealed its visual world in layers, starting with Meme
Oshino’s hangout, then moving outward and upward in scope from a single
building to a whole urban metropolis in its final arc. *Rebellion* does
much the same thing, taking the unreality of a witch’s labyrinth and
magical combat and painting it on the scale of all of Mitakihara City.
And again, this all ties back into the narrative – the eye-popping
magnitude of the movie’s battles isn’t just for show, but a subtle hint
at the containment of the entire world inside an artificial magical
realm. The backhanded illumination of the unnatural contortions you’d
have to perform to get a “utopian” setting, where the girls all just get
along happily, is just icing on the cake.

I’d previously have said that the original *Madoka* series was good
television, but only with some major caveats. With *Rebellion*, though,
the franchise has turned what were once narrative flaws completely on
their head. When I talk about endings, I don’t care about whether
they’re happy or sad, just whether they’re fitting. In my book, then,
this is a good ending.

<% end %>
