---
title: Transform any text into a patent application
url: http://lav.io/2014/05/transform-any-text-into-a-patent-application/
created_at: 2014-05-12 00:59:00.000000000 +00:00
tags:
- software
- morningtoncrescent
- python
---

Sam Lavigne’s written a Python script that takes any text you feed it
and massages it into something that looks like a patent application. You
can see [what it does to the Communist
Manifesto](http://saaaam.s3.amazonaws.com/communist.pdf), or peek at a
sample of what it produces from this blog’s archives after the break.

<% render '/blog/_more.haml' do %>

> # An apparatus and device for planning to follow this spring
>
> ## ABSTRACT
>
> An apparatus and device for planning to follow this spring. The
> devices comprise a 3.0 release, a central chamber, an original
> television, an actual frame, a high bar, an interstellar pen, a
> half-empty cup, a rapid release, an opaque gear, an intrinsic barrier,
> a dark art, a break room, a common transport, and a Danbooru
> directory.
>
> ## BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
>
> Figure 13 schematically illustrates the desirable qualities of said
> hug.
>
> Figure 15 is an isometric view of an anime character in my ask.
>
> Figure 19 is a perspective view of an easy target for invasion and
> enslavement.
>
> Figure 28 schematically illustrates the next decade of my life.
>
> Figure 42 is a cross section of the first episode of the new Black
> Rock Shooter TV.
>
> Figure 47 schematically illustrates a veritable gold mine of loopable
> animation.
>
> Figure 48 is an isometric view of the other offerings in noitaminA
> this season.
>
> Figure 91 illustrates a good bit of romantic fantasy.
>
> Figure 92 is a schematic drawing of the new probe *Virtue* on a
> low-period comet.
>
> Figure 101 is a perspective view of the HTML-safe version of the
> caption.
>
> ## DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
>
> The detailed description set forth below in connection with the
> appended drawings is intended as a description of presently-preferred
> embodiments of the invention and is not intended to represent the only
> forms in which the present invention may be constructed or utilized.
> The description sets forth the functions and the sequence of steps for
> using the invention in connection with the illustrated embodiments.
> However, it is to be understood that the same or equivalent functions
> and sequences may be accomplished by different embodiments that are
> also intended to be encompassed within the spirit and scope of the
> invention.
>
> The present invention establishes his name as an anime. The invention
> invented the idea of the value. The present invention shows no
> indication that an image. The present invention decoding the video
> from the begins. The device’s a step-by-step explanation of this
> command. The present invention puts the kibosh on this problem. The
> present invention feel in spite of the fact. The present invention
> puts a completely unnecessary burden on the player. The device avoids
> this kind of saves confusion. The device has the density of a block.
> The present invention is a veritable gold mine of loopable animation.
> The invention’s a GIF from the first episode. The invention strikes up
> a relationship with a mysterious older woman.
>
> According to a preferred embodiment, the invention writing a post on
> this commonality. The device write a long post about my favorite
> anime. The invention has an italic without a bold italic. The present
> invention takes a look at some downloadable web. The invention
> sidesteps the problem of default system. The invention switches the
> placement of posts and navigation. The device quotes that markup in
> your post. The device sits in front of the computer. The invention
> gets a good look at the screen. The present invention does some really
> extreme stuff with the comms signal. The invention sends the drone
> around with some coffee. The invention saves a post as a draft. The
> invention is really something of an accident. The device takes an
> internet hug without seeks counsel. The present invention received an
> internet hug from the applicant. The device indicates the conduct of a
> theoretical action. The present invention is devoured whole by an
> invisible Burmese python. The invention undermined the emotional
> narrative that the rest. The present invention constructs a visual
> language with each installment. The present invention takes the
> unreality of a witch. The device is just icing on the cake.

<% end %>
