---
title: Roll to dodge magical beam rifle
created_at: 2014-05-21 17:51:19.000000000 +00:00
tags:
- madoka
- magicalburst
- dogsinthevineyard
- roleplaying
---

Let’s talk about roleplaying games for a moment.

For a little over a year now, I’ve been running a series of campaigns
set loosely in the same world, one that started as a loose takeoff on
*Puella Magi Madoka Magica*’s somewhere-after-modern urban take on the
magical girl genre. I started out using the then-current third draft of
Ewen Cluney’s [*Magical
Burst*](http://yarukizerogames.com/tag/magical-burst/), which is openly,
and visibly, inspired in large part by the *Madoka* TV series. The
system, to its credit, captures the twisted, surreal aesthetics of the
show’s universe quite well, with explicit mechanics detailing the
deleterious effects of magic on the player characters’ mental and
physical state. It essentially takes the aspect of *Madoka* that has the
most immediate impact on its viewers, and turns it into a fairly
straightforward tabletop game.

<!-- more -->

------------------------------------------------------------------------

This first “season” of my campaign went pretty well, all told, but I
ended up eventually switching away from *Magical Burst* for a number of
reasons. Some of the problems simply stemmed from the system itself
still being in a beta state, meaning that the rules had some major
oversights that I had to patch as we went along. This by itself actually
wasn’t all that much of an issue; after all, I didn’t have any
expectations that something still labeled “third draft” would be
perfect, and the unofficial [*Magical Burst ReWrite*
project](http://tinyurl.com/MBRewrite) plugged some of the more glaring
holes.

The apparent conflict between my style of play and *MB*’s was harder to
resolve. As someone with an obvious narrativist bent, I could only
scratch my head at some of the things that *MB* required die rolls for.
The relationship mechanics, in particular, were a constant source of
bafflement for both myself and my players. As a result, even though the
player characters often had complicated ties to the NPCs and to each
other, none of that ended up mattering much when it came to the
dice-rolling aspects of the game.

*MB*, too, has a heavy emphasis on combat with witches (or *youma*, as
the rulebook refers to them). Now, for a *Madoka*-like setting, this
presents a narrative conundrum, because the original series portrays
them mostly as forces of nature that the antagonists take advantage of,
rather than as antagonists themselves. Their motivations are never all
that clearly outlined, if they even exist to begin with. Witches mostly
became a sideshow in my campaign as a consequence, existing so that the
players had a chance to use their magic stats and pull off some cool
moves every once in a while. Their real opponents were human more often
than not, a case that *MB* handles awkwardly at best.

Perhaps the most fundamental problem, though, lay not with *Magical
Burst* per se, but just the unavoidable challenge of adapting *Madoka*
to a roleplaying setting in the first place. What makes *Madoka*’s story
memorable is arguably a combination of two things. The first is the
sheer scale of its main conflicts, which take place on an almost
cosmological level. The battles we see aren’t just battles between
people; they’re representations of battles between *concepts* – emotion
against logic, [emotion against
itself](http://blog.room208.org/post/84717187433) – embodied as people.
The second is *Madoka*’s willingness to constantly upend the apparent
rules of its narrative, in a way that remains consistent with itself but
not necessarily with the viewer’s expectations. Neither of these bode
well for the ultimately character-driven, mechanical nature of your
typical roleplaying game.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

These issues by themselves weren’t completely fatal to the *Magical
Burst* incarnation of my campaign. Ultimately, though, it ended up
floundering in the face of some player disagreements anyway, so I took
the opportunity to go back to the drawing board. I knew that I wanted a
system that put emphasis on the human element, which was already the
focus of most of the conflict in the game, and perhaps dialed down the
importance of witches and other supernatural entities. This would push
me away from *Madoka*’s aesthetic, but, after the experience of a few
games, it was becoming clear to me that the tension between characters
with opposing goals was the most interesting thing that had emerged from
the campaign. The vivid imagery could be left to our imaginations.

Around that time, the suggestion of adapting *Dogs in the Vineyard* to
our setting came up. Having run *Dogs* before, this was an idea that
immediately appealed to me, especially in the way that its conflict
system pushes characters’ motivations straight into the foreground. The
biggest challenge, of course, was in swapping out the Mormon pioneer
milieu of the original game for a magical girl facade, but this ended up
being mostly a cosmetic change – fundamentally, the mechanics of the
game haven’t been touched.

So far, I’m mostly satisfied with how things have turned out. What the
current version of my campaign lacks in explicitly supernatural
goings-on, it makes up for by more firmly grounding the characters’
respective struggles. The stronger sense of each character’s personality
in turn informs the decisions the players make, and the plots that I
construct. Most importantly, it feels less like a series of inexplicable
things is happening *to* the characters; instead, they’re taking an
active role in building the narrative, no matter how halting that might
be from time to time. To me, that’s what makes a game interesting.

And, hey, I can always have a witch bite one of their heads off later.
