---
title: Some stuff about names in the I/O visual novel
created_at: 2014-06-14 01:43:21.000000000 +00:00
tags:
- io
- visualnovel
- appellationappraisal
---

I spent a lot of time groaning at these, so I figured I’d get it all out
of my system by slamming it all into a blog post. Yeah, spoilers.

<!-- more -->

------------------------------------------------------------------------

I’ve presented names here in the original order, because that makes it
easier to talk about the wordplay involved.

## Hinata, Mutsuki, and Sakuya

Let’s start with the obvious dualities here. Hinata is the sun; Mutsuki
and Sakuya are the moon. Hinata is the day; Mutsuki and Sakuya are the
night. Both of the girls’ names reference beginnings, incidentally.
Mutsuki (spelled <span lang="ja">睦月</span>, as opposed to the *I/O*
character’s <span lang="ja">夢月</span>) is the traditional name for the
first month of the lunar calendar, and Sakuya (as explained in the game)
refers to the new moon or the first day of each lunar month on which it
falls.

## Isaiah Nagy and Izawa Nami (Ereshkigal)

The pronunciation has been beaten with a stick in Isaiah’s case, but
it’s not hard to spot the reference here to Izanagi and Izanami, two of
the chief deities of Shinto. Nami’s name has the added bonus of sounding
like the Japanese for “and now, a wave,” which is funny considering all
of the flood myth stuff that goes on in the middle of the VN. Maybe I’m
reaching. Then again, maybe not.

## Izumo Tsukasa (Enlil)

Japan’s old Izumo province was known as “the land of the gods,” while
the name Tsukasa refers to one who is in charge of or responsible for
something. Fitting, given Enlil’s imperious nature.

## Igarashi Kousaku (Nergal)

Written with the more usual characters <span lang="ja">工作</span>,
*kousaku* can mean either “workmanship” or “maneuvering” (think
politics). Nergal does plenty of both throughout. The common surname
Igarashi is written with the characters for “fifty storms,” and that man
also does have a temper…
