---
created_at: 2014-09-06 04:04:00.000000000 +00:00
tags:
- chinese
- japanese
- linguistics
- orthography
- followeroutreach
---

So a discussion about the relationship between written Chinese and
Japanese recently popped up on my dashboard. I hate reblog chains, so
I’ll just link to
@[mnxmnkmnd](http://tmblr.co/mSE73dbawHqAKxEbHe8B_2g){:.tumblelog}’s
[response](http://mnxmnkmnd.tumblr.com/post/96518596868/zersk-whyareallthegoodurlsalreadyused)
and give my own take on this.

First, let’s get this out of the way: The modern Chinese and Japanese
orthographies are generally not mutually intelligible. The primary
problem isn’t even just one of vocabulary, but the fact that basic
morphological and syntactic elements are expressed in different scripts
in each language, since Japanese morphosyntax is expressed largely
through kana. I would use tense, but Chinese doesn’t even have tense, so
let’s look at how adverbs are indicated instead. Here, Chinese uses the
affix character <span lang="zh">地</span>, while Japanese instead uses
varying kana conjugations ending in <span lang="ja">に</span> or <span
lang="ja">く</span>. These are, of course, nothing alike.

That being said, the two languages *do* share [a large written
vocabulary](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sino-Japanese_vocabulary).
China and Japan’s long shared histories make tracing all this out rather
complicated, but if you want a sloppy summary, there were two large
borrowings. First, way back in the single-digit centuries AD, Japanese
took a lot of existing Middle Chinese words. Then, in Japan’s Meiji era,
a whole bunch of kanji neologisms were coined for imported concepts, and
a lot of these made their way back to China. You’re not going to be able
to figure out even a majority of what’s written in one language with
only a knowledge of the other, but some sentences will be pretty
transparent.

But then, of course, there are the differing simplifications and
preferred expressions for certain phrases, which throws a wrench into
the perhaps 20 percent (I made this number up) mutual comprehensibility
rate. At this point, it’s getting late, so I won’t keep going.

TL;DR: The original analogy is silly. Maybe if the comparison had been
between English and German instead. You get the vague ability to pick
out some words that look similar, but the grammar is nowhere near the
same, and what is that weird ß thing?

P.S. Someone should find actual papers on this.
